1. CLIENT AND TOPIC (25-word minimum)

Which of the following describes the website you'll you be creating?

a website for your department at work
a website for your entire company
a website for your favorite nonprofit organization
a website for a home-based business you run
a website for a business someone else owns
a website for a portfolio of your work
a different type of website (you must seek instructor approval before creating a website type not mentioned in items 1-6)
2. DEVELOPMENT PROCESS AND ENGAGEMENT (50-word minimum)

Are you making the website for a client (someone other than yourself?)
If you are making the website for a client, how will you involve them in the development process?
If you are making the website for yourself, what research will you perform to help you create the content of the website?
3. TESTING (50-word minimum)

What will you do to test this website prior to launch to make sure everything you created works as designed and that your website does not contain any errors?
(Hint: This testing does not refer to HTML/CSS validation, but rather how you will test the website to make sure it is complete and meets the client requirements, including what was discovered during the development process and engagement.)
What browsers will you include in your testing?
4. DESCRIPTION (100-word minimum)

Describe the business. What is the goal of the business?
Describe the purpose of the website for the business.
Who is the intended target audience and why (in detail)?
(Hint: Details and personas that make up that audience would tell you classifications around areas such as: age, gender, race, location, ethnicity, economic, education level, etc. but most importantly how they access information – all of these are design considerations for the designer. Without knowing who is the target audience the designer will be hard-pressed to design well a website to meet the target audience needs.)
What impact will the identification of the target audience have on how you develop the website?
What unique content created and/or written/designed by you (text, images, etc.) will the website offer?
What content will you get to create the website from other sources?
How frequently will the website’s content need to be updated?
5. GROWTH AND MAINTENANCE (50-word minimum)

How do you think the website will continue to grow and evolve over time?
What things can you do while developing the website to make it easier to maintain?
What tasks will be required to maintain the website?
At what frequency will each task you identify need to occur? (e.g. daily, once a week, once a month, etc.)
6. ORGANIZATION (100-word minimum)
TASK 1: INCLUDE A WIREFRAME (WEBSITE MAP/DIAGRAM/FLOWCHART) in this section.
Your Final Project Wireframe will show how your Final Project website will be organized and how the individual webpages will connect to each other.
Not sure where to start? Feel free to use any Wireframe/Flowchart creation tool at your disposal. If you do not already have access to a tool, try Diagrams.net (diagrams.net). it is a free, web-based flowchart application.

How will the website content be organized?
What sub-topics will the website include?
What pages will be included on the website?
Describe the page layout and navigation you are considering.
7. WEB HOSTING (100-word minimum)

Please note that you aren't required to actually register a domain name or purchase a web hosting plan (do not spend any money).

What criteria will you use to select a web host?
Note: This question does not mean identify a specific web host that you will use. Rather, it is asking you to explain how you will go through a selection process to identify which host you will use. There should always be a selection process instead of just picking any web host! Be specific in your reasoning.
What special technologies will be necessary for the website (shopping cart, SSL, etc.)? Why?
What programming and/or scripting languages will the website need to have supported? Why?
Find and identify an available domain name that would work for the website you are planning. You may use a website such as Network Solutions (http://www.netsol.com) to find an available domain name. Explain your reasoning for selecting the domain name you identified.
8. MARKETING (50-word minimum)

How will the website be marketed?
What SEO (Search Engine Optimization) elements can be covered in the website planning and building process?
9. SECURITY (50-word minimum)

Will the website include an e-commerce component?
Will content on the website be password protected? If yes, explain what content will be password protected. If no, explain why there will not be any content that will be password protected.
Will the website have a need for users to create accounts?
While the web host will perform much of the heavy lifting on the web server to secure the website, what are some of the specific steps you can take as the website designer and developer to help secure the website?
10. REFERENCES

List any sources you used in writing your Final Project Proposal in this section. Follow APA format.
